*--*  03-22-92  -  21:48:36  *--*

*--*  03-22-92  -  21:48:59  *--*

File:        Using Dilantin to greatly improve POT & LSD
Uploaded by: twist
Downloaded:  23
File size:   32421 characters

Press space when you're ready, or [X] to abort...

***********************************************
Disclaimer:  Although this message is being left anonymously I want
everyone to know I AM NOT a Doctor and I DO NOT suggest anyone partake in
any Illegal activity or ingest any drug not prescribed by a physician. I
also am not suggesting that dosages mentioned here are correct for you
(for any usage), this can only be determined by a licensed physician.
I also do not wish to be contacted by anyone seeking sources for any of
the substances listed below. I also will not solicit nor except any
financial gain from this information or its use.
***********************************************
 
Whew, now that that is said...
 
Is there anyone out there that would be interested in knowing of a legal
prescription drug that would GREATLY improve the quality of getting high
on POT (and I believe LSD)? This isn't a rhetorical question by the way, 
I've discovered something that I think hasn't been tried before, and I'm
sure that you haven't heard of it used for this purpose. (The name of the 
drug follows, so keep reading).
 
What if I told you that this substance will COMPLETELY eliminate any
paranoia and unfounded fears? That you can get stoned out of your gourd
and be so confident that you can go to work or class. That your mind
automatically adjusts to the situation around you and reduces the high
temporarily if you get in a real stressful situation. That you can lay in
bed and meditate on the subject of YOUR desires without having your brain
go wondering off on some paranoid tangent, like did I forget to lock the
door and turn off the stove (when you know damn well you did).  All of
those little annoying things that you've wished weren't a part of getting
high are now GONE!  The high it self also seems so much more natural as
if it is coming from you and not the herb. The improvement really goes
beyond words and was very much a surprise when I first discovered it.
Even now 3 months after I first stumbled across this I am amazed at how
much better it is everytime I get high! It DOES NOT impair your abilities
in any way and does not block out "NORMAL" fears and concerns. The drug
when used by its self is used by thousands of people everyday, including
school teachers, bus drivers, even policeman.
 
Ok, you're thinking that this is just the rantings of some stoned dude 
you've never even heard of before. Right? Well I really hope a number of 
you listen to me because I have stumbled across something BIG and I want
to share it with everyone (anonymously!). I think this is something that
is so great and so important that I want the word to get out so that
everyone can enjoy what I have discovered. (Ok, I know it sounds like I'm 
ranting but believe me its worth it).  I'm not even asking you to take my 
word for it, I've found scientific studies published in MAJOR medical 
journals to back this up. Some of the studies directly involve marijuana
(and LSD), most are more related to brain function, usage in controlling
fear, improvements in brain energy usage, oxygen usage, etc.  I have
found major research that points to many many areas where this compound
has a beneficial effect on the brain in general.  I've actually done a 
lot of research in the past 3 months on this substance because I wanted
to make sure first that it was safe, and second because I couldn't 
believe that this would have gone unnoticed for this long (decades
folks).
 
Ok, enough of a tease. What is called?  Dilantin is the most common brand
name, the generic name is Phenytoin. Its FDA approved use is to control
convulsions (epilepsy, wow heavy stuff you're thinking). Dilantin is a 
prescription drug that is NOT on the controlled substance list. It isn't 
a stimulant, amphetamine, or a barbiturate.  It is essentially non-toxic
and nearly impossible to overdose on (Physicians guide doesn't even list 
a true overdose state, it simply says to see the Possible Side Effects
section. Very rare, see what it says about Aspirin for "Overdosage"!).
Dilantin (DPH for short) will not leave you drowsy or disoriented, in
fact it usually makes you much more alert and cognitive. Because it is
not a controlled substance it can be Legally brought in to this country
from abroad (uhh, Mexico for instance) with out any difficulties or a
doctors prescription (you need to tell the customs guy that it was used
in treatment by a foreign doctor. Read "How to buy Almost Any Drug 
Legally Without A Prescription" by: James H. Johnson).  Also your family 
physician has the legal right to prescribe this drug for what ever
condition he/she may wish (See FDA Drug Bulletin dated April 1982 "Use of
Approved Drugs for Unlabeled Indications").  The normal use for DPH is
probably the only one that most doctors are familiar with even though it
is useful for a variety of disorders ranging from Headaches to
Antidepressant to every day Stress. It is regularly prescribed to infants
for seizure control, and is considered a very safe drug. This may not
make it sound like a very "Cool" drug, definitely not something your local
'supplier' will know anything about.  However I don't think you will have
difficulties obtaining DPH from your friendly neighborhood Doctor, though
it may take a small white lie or two (disclaimer: which I am not
recommending ;-)
 
QUOTE FROM RESEARCH PATIENT  (NOT INVOLVING illicit Drugs):
   "Before taking Dilantin I'd been so tired and worn out
    I just dragged myself around.. Athough Dilantin had a
    calming effect on me, to my surprise it didn't slow
    me down. On the contrary my energy returned full force.
    It was as though the energy that had been wasted in my
    overactive brain was made available for healthier
    purposes.... I was neither tranquil nor ecstatic"
 
Authors note:  With pot and Dilantin you may very well feel ecstatic!
 
I first started taking DPH when I lived overseas to improve cognitive
functions. Though I did notice some notable improvements I was taking so
many other things at the time (mostly obscure nutrients, read the book
"Mind Food and Smart Pills" by Ross Pelton Ph.D)  I didn't know it was 
Phenytoin that was doing something. I thought it was just the combination
of everthing I guess. Also I didn't play with it very much or in high 
enough doses.  Where I was I really didn't have access to pot (they could 
lock you up for 10 years for one joint!) so I didn't notice these effects 
until I got back.  I stocked up on a few things before I left to
experiment with later.  I didn't even think to try Phenytoin for 6 months 
after I returned.  One night when I was alone I started smoking some pot
from a batch I hadn't tried before but from a familiar source. I thought 
it was going to be the same mediocre stuff I had been smoking and since I
was bored I smoked the whole joint.  Well it turned out it was much
stronger than usual (2-3 hits would have been enough). Well the high was
good but I kept getting those weird semi-paranoid thoughts in my head and
would get up and check the window evertime I heard voices, would check
the phone to make sure it was on-hook in case work called, and checked
the door a couple times to make sure it was locked. I also started
thinking about my marriage and friends and whether they "really liked"
me. Weird things that I knew even at the time were silly. Normally I can
'fight' off these thoughts when stoned, but I guess on this night I was
tired and the pot stronger than expected. So I got to thinking about what
might bring me down a little (besides the old standby, Sleep). From past
experience I knew my vitamin type cognitive substances didn't do to much, 
and when they did help they had to be taken 'before' I got high not
after. So I came across a bottle of Dilantin that was gathering dust and
thought I would give it a try.  At the time I wasn't really thinking 
about all the research I had read on it, my only thought was "well its 
prescription and it can't hurt, so why not". I dropped two (100mg/each) 
and within 20 minutes I was on top of the world! All of a sudden not only
were the small weird paranoid thoughts gone but suddenly I was VERY
relaxed and felt great! I was in charge of mind, and my mind was 'turned 
on' like never before!  I knew then and there I had stumbled on to 
something great. My confidence was even higher than before I got stoned,
my mind was running at full speed and I felt I was at least 5 times more
intelligent than normal.  I honestly believe even now, when not stoned,
that that is true.  Normally I don't think I get very paranoid when 
stoned. But now that I take Dilantin I realize that I had actually been
using a lot of psychic (brain) energy to keep from thinking along those
channels, I was usually successful but at a cost.  Now this isn't even a 
consideration. IF my mind starts to get a little paranoid it doesn't last 
more than a couple minutes and it is VERY mild (and I think is based more
on normal concerns, like that cop behind my car with the red lights on :)
 
After further experiments I've confirmed that this wasn't a one time
deal. Now every time I get stoned I take 2 or 3  100mg Caps of Dilantin
first (about 45 minutes prior if I can).  I believe that both the pot and
Dilantin work along similar lines.  The Dilantin relaxes the fear and
anxiety, and the pot relaxes everything else.  If you ever read books on
true meditation you know the primary goal is to totally relax, forget all
fears, concerns, and problems; not to let any outside concerns enter the
mind. After that it is to relax the body, relax every muscle in the body
being sure not to miss a one. The combination of Dilantin and Pot does
just that, along with the added abilities of THC to liven things up you
have a combination that is very hard to beat.  (I once read a book by a
Swami that took LSD in his golden years and reported that it was 'great',
it allowed him to 'reach the same places' he did through meditation but
without the 'work' of meditation. He referred to it as a great 'short 
cut'.) I find that this over-relaxed (but paradoxically, over-active) 
mind seems to be in a hyperactive meditative state, its like nothing I
have experienced before.  Everytime I get stoned I'll start "problem 
solving". Not just menial little things, I will get insights in to areas
I really have little training. Later I would go to the library and
research the subject and find that though I hadn't discovered anything 
new I had been able to deduce things from very little knowledge. Many of
these related to Dilantin or other medical research I had been reading
recently. Sounds weird but I really do believe that my cognitive
abilities are higher on this combo. Its as if the pot and its ability to
improve sensory input is now put to use in a more intelligent way.  My
work involves a lot of troubleshooting and now I solve the problems much
quicker than normal. Those around me have even commented on the speed and
logic they've noticed while I work. In the past I always avoided getting 
high before going to work and would wait until I was on my way home or
something (I spend a lot of time on road, often 2-3 hours one way). Now I
would rather be a little high at work, my work sure isn't suffering from 
it thats for sure.  Just last week I figured I had better find some way
of replenishing my Dilantin supplies so I went to visit a Doctor (for the
first time in 8 years!). Now remembering I am not epileptic: I had to put
on quite a song and dance to get the 'script. Well I went in there STONED 
solid and on Dilantin, not only did I get a 6 month prescription (600
100mg caps) I ended up spending a FULL two hours (for only $35!)
discussing cognitive, muscle building, and healthful nutrients with him.
Before I left he had made copies of about 7 pages worth of vitamin
research papers I happened to have in my brief case for his own personal
use, and was giving me copies of items he had been researching recently.
Even though the Dilantin prescription written for me was not for
cognitive use the discussion turned to its use in that area and he is
going to try taking it for that use himself! He is also going to order
the Chromium supplements (for no exercise muscle building), Choline,
DMAE, and B5 (for Cognitive use) that we discussed.  He learned more that
day from me then I did from him. It was great. Just glad he didn't 
examine my eyes while I was there, plum forgot to bring the drops :)
(Funny side note:  I had played rather dumb on the subject of Dilantin it
self, only relating things I had noticed about it personally. He seemed
to *want* to fill me in on all the other things Dilantin is reputed to do
and dug out his copy of the book "A Remarkable Medicine Has Been 
Overlooked".  At that point I almost broke out in laughter. Not only did 
I own a copy of the book and had read it cover to cover, but I had it in
my briefcase! The large hardback edition no less, the one with all the
research studies that his older copy lacked.  I spent the rest of the
session trying to find things in my briefcase that came up in
conversation without him seeing the book! I thoroughly enjoyed myself :)
 
 
BEFORE:
   "I think constantly. I try to stop but I can't...I sort of keep 
    thinking of different things all at the same time...I tend to think
    of  other things at the same time I'm reading...I have a hard time 
    remembering what I read."
AFTER:
   "Well it seems like all of a sudden I'm coming back to life...I can 
    understand things better and concentrate on things. I don't have that 
    continuous thinking. ... my mind isn't running all over the place."
 
Quote from prison inmate participating in a study of this drug.
This study did not involve the use of illicit drugs.
 
You thought this article was about improving the quality of getting high?
Well it is.  So whats this quote about a confused prison inmate doing
here?  Let me tell you. Some aspects of getting high correlate very
closely to mental conditions that can occur in the brain. Let me quote my
Psyc 101 notes from years ago on getting high:
 
     The "act of the central processing areas of the brain that 'try to 
     make sense' out of sensory messages and by speeding up activity in 
     some brain centers and by inhibiting activity in other areas. They
     make you perceive the world differently" "...symptoms are associated
     with Schizophrenia".
 
So it doesn't surprise me any that a drug that effects people in a
mentally positive way when they are not high could have an even more
positive effect when they are high.  But I want to make it perfectly
clear that this is NOT a drug that is being used to treat a mental
condition or mental patients (even though it is thought that it could
help many people).
 
Phenytoin, or the more common brand name Dilantin has been used to treat
epilepsy since 1938 and to this day that is the only FDA approved usage
for it. (BTW: Epileptics are VERY normal people in every other aspects of
their life. Many famous and intelligent people have been epileptics, and
epileptics today serve in every job sector imaginable. But no I am not
epileptic.). I first became aware of this drug from reading about it in
heath book on life extension (one of my many hobbies, kind of a life long
research project. I'm 31 BTW). What I read at the time wasn't really very
interesting but it did catch my attention. When I later came across a
whole book just on Dilantin (DPH) with a name of "A Remarkable Medicine 
Has Been Overlooked" my curiosity was peaked and I bought it. At the time 
I was living in a country where most prescription drugs are sold over the
counter so if I wanted to experiment I could. At that time I started
experimenting with the cognitive aspects of the drug.
 
Well this book turned out to be much better than I could have hoped for
and I read it cover to cover. It is published by the nonprofit "Dreyfus 
Medical Foundation", a foundation that was begun with the sole purpose of 
investigating Dilantin and communicating their findings to doctors. Their
reason for doing this was simple, their founder is Jack Dreyfus (of the
Dreyfus Mutual Fund). He suffered from an over-busy mind, excessive fear
and anger, leading to depression. Psychological counseling wasn't 
helping him, nor were other medications.   His discovery of Dilantin was
also accidental.
 
This book is VERY detailed in delivering the medical and scientific
research behind the many new found uses for Dilantin. It also contains
over a 130 pages of Mr. Dreyfus' personal experiences with Dilantin and 
his efforts to bring it to the attention of the FDA and the medical
community. It contains over 2100 references to medical journals and
studies, with excerpts from many of them.  I suggest that if anyone is
interested in how Dilantin or the mind functions that they read this
book, it is one of the best I've seen on the subject (through studying 
the researchers materials). Here are a few more excerpts that may be of
interest:
 
 
    Annals of Internal Medicine:  "DPH (Dilantin) alleviated anxiety, 
    nervous tension and irritability. In addition, the ability to
    concentrate and to work increased and the patients exhibited a
    general feeling off well-being"
 
    Diseases of the Nervous System:  "They observed that in several 
    striking instances individuals who had been dull, fearful and
    disinterested, emerged bright, confident and capable"            
 
    Dreyfus:  "The author observed that multiple simultaneous thoughts as 
    well as obsessive and preoccupied thinking were relieved by DPH. Also
    coincident with the relief was marked improvement in fear and the
    related conditions of worry, pessimism, anxiety, apprehensiveness and
    depression."
 
    Portsmouth Journal of Psychology:  "found DPH effective in the 
    improvement of  concentration. This was demonstrated in a performance
    test designed to simulate air traffic control conditions." "This test
    was done with placebo, on a double-blind basis..." " Although
    performance was markedly improved, NO INDIVIDUAL FELT A DRUG EFFECT
    OF ANY SORT"
 
    Psychopharmacologia:  "The patients' (suffering from fear & anxiety 
    attacks) feelings of tranquility, composure, relaxation, optimism and
    cheerfulness also showed statistically significant improvement with
    DPH. No undesirable side effects were encountered."
 
    From summary:  DPH preserves ATP (cellular energy), glucose...
    Protects against oxygen lack. DPH has a regulatory effect on
    norepinephrine, acetylcholine (neurotransmitters), GABA, insulin, and
    blood sugar; and increases cerebral blood flow.
    DPH has a calming effect on the overactive brain. Symptoms of this
    condition are preoccupation, multiple thinking. DPH reduces this
    uncontrolled activity enabling more normal thinking processes to be
    restored...without sedation.
    Emotional states related to fear for which DPH is therapeutic are
    worry, anxiety, guilt, pessimism and depression. Although these
    excessive anger and fear states are decreased or eliminated by DPH,
    realistic reactions of anger and fear are not interfered with."
 
    Drugs and Cerebral Function: DPH was found to be significantly
    effective in delaying the onset of fatigue and accompanying errors.
    The author notes that although many substances have been used to
    improve concentration over the past pentade, these substances are
    usually stimulants. Although DPH improved concentration
    significantly, it produced none of the effects of a stimulant.
 
    Revue de Medicine Aeronautique ...: "Significantly improved the 
    performance of three separate groups of pilots in simulated flying
    and radar target-fixing tasks..." The study involved 22 commercial 
    pilots, eighteen military pilots and nineteen private pilots. also...
    ".. DPH can improve performance on IQ tests."
 
    Journal of the American Gereatrics Society: "DPH not only assists 
    concentration when impairment in cognitive function is caused by
    irrelevant ruminative preoccupation (mind wonder), but that it also
    improves concentration when efficiency is impaired by fatigue"
    "...were studied in a double-blind cross-over test with placebo 
    control. This cross-over design was used to eliminate possible
    practice effects on performance.... With DPH significant improvement
    in scores occurred in information, comprehension, digit symbol and
    full scale IQ. The authors conclude that ... effectiveness of DPH in
    improving generalized mental functions."
 
    Under topic "LSD Flashbacks":
    ...DPH "terminated the flashback while in progress" ...in another
    case "within forty-eight hours marked improvement was noted." Yet
    another "Within forty-eight hours she noted a very marked reduction
    in all types of flashbacks,..."  I would think it is the fear part
    of the flashback being reduced. Since flashbacks are nothing more
    than vivid memories.
 
    Another chapter summary:
    "DPH preserves energy compounds... Additional studies demonstrate 
    that DPH has anti-anoxic properties" (reduces oxygen deficiencies in 
    the brain). Regulatory effects on ....vasopressin secretion
    (vasopressin is a brain hormone that is involved with memory,
    learning and recall).
    ** "protective properties of DPH could have broad applicability when 
    neurons are more sensitive than normal"  
 
    Short notes:
    "DPH has a protective effect against oxygen deprivation."
    "DPH prolonged respiratory activity."
    "DPH increases glycogen in rat brain"  (a brain 'food')
    "DPH increases the concentrations of brain energy compounds measured, 
     i.e., phosphocreatine, serum and brain glucose and glycogen"
    "a single dose of DPH increased the concentration of brain glycogen 
     ...by 7% at 30 minutes and by 11% at 120 minutes."
    "brain glucose levels were increased in mice who received DPH"
    "DPH increased the release of acetylcholine from parasympathetic 
     nerve endings" (acetylcholine - "primary neurotransmitter involved
     with memory. The chemical messenger responsible for communications
     between brain cells"  - Ross Pelton, Ph.D.)
    "DPH increased the concentration of norepinephrine in the
     hypothalamus, cerebellum and brain stem"
    "DPH enhances the conversion of  glutamic acid to glutamine and GABA 
     in brain."
    "Successful treatment with DPH of five patients with hypoglycemia"
     (low blood sugar) ..."The response of insulin to oral glucose was 
     reduced in different individuals by 11 to 44%"
     (Low blood sugar has a very negative effect on the mind.)
    DPH has antitoxic effects against many substances (dozens listed,
     including cyanide, DDT, and strychnine)
    "found DPH effective to a significant degree in improving 
     concentration in twelve college students"
    "in a double-blind study, found that DPH improved cognitive 
     performance to a significant level in twenty volunteer hospital
     employees."
 
*** Under "Thought, Mood and Behavior"                                ***
*     "The usefulness of DPH has been reported in the treatment of      *
*      frightening visual and auditory hallucinations, persecutory      *
*      delusions...in the treatment of drug-induced phychosis including *
***    cocaine, LSD, hashish and mescaline"                           ***
 
 
Well by this time you must be about 'researched out'. If you want more
read the Dreyfus book.
 
One thing to keep in mind anytime you get stoned, on or off Dilantin, is
to make sure you aren't tired, either physically or mentally. Dilantin 
only gets rid of irrational stress/paranoia and boosts the cognitive
abilities of the mind. It can't completely compensate for any lack of 
'brain food' or lack of sleep. I had to find this out the hard way too.
I went almost two days with about 5 hours sleep total and was very tired.
I figured what the heck Dilantin would fix things. Not so.  Even though I
wasn't paranoid when I got high I did become even more tired and very 
sleepy, I also got rather dizzy. But true to form Dilantin did its part,
no one knew the differnce including my work site, and I wasn't fearful 
they would know anything was wrong anyway. The only thing that bothered
me was the dizziness and I noticed I really didn't get any effects from 
the THC, no special insights or added cognitive abilities.  A THC or LSD
high needs lots of brain 'food' to work with, this includes the 'sugars'
(blood sugar really has little to do with sugar intake btw) and nutrients
such as Choline, DMAE, vitamin B5, etc. If you think you are hypoglycemic
be even more careful about getting high (a very low carbohydrate diet
should help. Read all of Dr. Atkins books on that). If you got drunk the
night before then forget about getting high, your body has enough to do
repairing that damage. If you have lots of stress in your life you're 
going to have to learn how to handle that first. Dilantin does little for
'rational fears' or normal stress, you'll have to fight those battles 
your self. If you are taking any other drugs (such as crack, amphetamines
or barbiturates) than forget about all this, this is for marijuana,
hashish, and psychedelics connoisseurs ONLY! Any other drug may very well
introduce aspects to the high that completely negates both the
contributions from Dilantin and marijuana!  I personally am very much
against "drug abuse", with the key word being abuse. (But this  DOES NOT
condone our current drug war hysteria!)  I highly recommend taking
vitamins and 'brain food' for maximum effects especially if you get high
often.  I swear by Choline (2-6 grams/day), DMAE (500-1000mg per day) ,
vitamin B5 (calcium pantothenate) (500-1000mg/day, and L-Glutamine (an
amino acid used by the brain much like glucose) (500-2500mg/day)  (Lower
number is normal/higher number is the maximum, depending on how I feel I
may take up to this amount). Along with a normal mega vitamin supplement
program and exercise (my weak point :). (See Mind Food and Smart Pills,
Life Extension, etc., etc., etc.)
** I find it interesting that marijuana (read Oct 91 High Times),
Choline, DMAE, and B5 are all either being studied as either benefiting
epileptics or as having possible adverse effects for epileptics.
Sometimes both!?!?  And of course DPH is the primary treatment for
epileptics. **). (BTW: Epilepsy basically results from problems with the
two sides of the brain communicating with one another.)  So don't give up 
the rest of your health regime and be sure if you are going to try this
that you do so only when you already feel good and are not in the least
bit tired or under heavy stress.
 
I've had a few  people ask me where they can obtain Dilantin (other names 
include: DPH, Phenytoin, Diphenylan). So I'll try to be of a little help.
 
Dilantin is a prescription drug so no it isn't available at your local 
health food store.  You may be able to talk your doctor in to writing you
a prescription for one a ligit' use such as epilepsy, hypoglycemia, 
stuttering, LSD Flashbacks, Cardiac Arrhythmia, or Withdrawl Symptoms.  I
suggest if you want to get it through your doctor and you don't want to 
lie to him/her that you order the book "A Remarkable Medicine Has Been 
Overlooked" by Jack Dreyfus (of the Dreyfus Foundation).  I ordered my 
book from the Life Extension Foundation about 2 years ago (you can call
them at 1-800-841-5433) it was the latest hard cover edition (cheaper
ones elsewhere do not contain all of the research data that the hard
cover edition has).  Once you have the book pick an appropriate symptom
and take the book with highlighted references down to the doctors office.
You may very well come out with the prescription you wanted. Just be sure
you make clear the dosage you want to take, I take 200-500mg/day. At this
dosage I'm afraid he will probably want to take blood tests every couple 
months to make sure you aren't reaching "toxic levels". Try to talk him 
out of doing more than a couple such tests if you can. Dilantin is not
known to be toxic at these doses but Doctors have to make their pool payments
some how. Perhaps the best way to find a good open minded Doctor in your area
is to call the Life Extension Foundation, above, and get a referal to a "Life
Extension Doctor" in your area. Dilantin is usually well known to these 
Doctors and I would think that most of them would be very willing to
prescribe it (very safe and not DEA controlled).
 
One of the easiest ways I would think to get Dilantin is to order it from
overseas. Thats right you can order most prescription drugs through the
mail legally!  (See my text file DPH1.TXT or .ZIP). Again Life Extension
Foundation can help with mail order companies. Here are a few more
prescription drug companies that will send your orders via the U.S.
mails. Please check these your self some may have gone out of business.
 
Interlab, BCM BOX 5890, London WC1N 3XX, England
World Pharmaceuticals Inc., P.O. Box 638, Rosarito Beach, B.C. Mexico
InHome Health Services, Dept. E, POB 3112, CH-2800, Delemont, Switzerland
 
InHome may be the best of these. Fastest & cheapest, was setup originally
for AIDS patients to mail order "Un-approved" treatments.
Prices for InHome are as follows:
* Phenytoin (Generic Dilantin, 100mg x 100) $8.80
* Piracetam (800mg x 60 tablets) $16.60
* Vasopressin (5ml spray) $8.75
 
You should include the following statement, signed, with your order:
 
  "I hereby declare that the products I am purchasing are not for 
   commercial resale. They are for my own personal use only. The supply
   ordered does not exceed three months usage and they are used with the
   consent of my physician."
 
If you happen to go to Mexico, Europe, British Virgin Islands, Japan,
Korea, Philippines, Germany, etc., simply walk in to the nearest pharmacy
and purchase them!  No prescription needed (if asked for one don't get 
worried it isn't necessary, some places give kick backs to Doctors who 
refer customers and this is how they keep track :).
 
You can also call your local Gay activist agency (or AIDS health agency).
With the Aids crisis people with aids are ordering almost everything
under the sun from overseas hoping for a miracle.  They are well
connected with mail order companies for prescription (and experimental)
drugs from around the world.
 
Remember the main reason you would want to take it is how much better the
effects of getting high are when you're using Dilantin. Its like you are 
in FULL control of the high. You can tell it to go away, soar to new
hights, increase auditory sensations (I know my hearing is better high,
and I'm fairly certain my vision improves as well).  I would really like 
to hear from anyone who takes Dilantin and Acid together! Imagine if you
remained in TOTAL control of all aspects of an LSD trip! It would save
you a bundle on vacations!!!! Simply will your mind to go and do what
ever you tell it. There have been medical studies of Dilantin  and LSD
and they sure seem to indicate that this may be what is going on.  This
would make "bad trips" a thing of the past. My mind is racing with the
possibilities may have to try this myself (someone want to email (or fax)
me some ;-)  .
 
 
I am VERY interested in hearing from all who try Dilantin and especially
those who try it with acid!!  I can be contacted on the following BBS
where I currently pick up my E-MAIL:
 
    Reality Check  415-567-7043    E-Mail to:  TWIST
 
 
Smoke on:
TWIST
 
Ramblings:
End the drug war before we all lose!
Take the profit out of drugs and there won't be a "drug problem".
Drugs aren't the problem, money is.  
Drug addicts wouldn't steal if the drugs were free!
GOD made marijuana, not Colombian drug lords.
 



From the AHF BBS (213) 454-2874
Press a key...

