Lemme tell you guys, never ever drive when you're stoned. I'm sure most of 
you know this, but I just tried it last night. Here's the story:

I got home from a friend's house, and I had nothing to do that night so I got 
out a roach I had been saving and smoked it at the bleachers at the football
field across the street. I hadn't brought a roach clip or anything, so I got 
a couple of drags from it there, and came home to finish it. After it started 
taking effect, my mom asked me if I wanted to go for a drive(I just had 
gotten my permit). So, knowing right away I was not in the condition for it,
I said no. But tonight she seemed especially eager to get me out on the road 
for a little bit. So, after being told that I really should get some practice 
and there was nothing better to do, I finally just said yes. I knew from that 
moment I had made the wrong decision, even if it meant telling my mom that I 
was just smoking pot. So, we went out, and first thing that happened was on 
the way down the bridge. I was doing about 35 mph, and out the corner of my 
left eye, I could have sworn I saw a man about 10 feet away from our car 
running down the bridge at the same speed I was going. So I sped up because 
I figured I was just imagining things. So I stopped paying attention to him,
and he was soon gone. So, the ride got more normal from there until I looked 
at my mom. It looks like she was sitting in a very awkward way, because she 
was nervous? I couldn't tell, so I tried to ignore it. All this time I'm 
riding the shoulder to stay out of any accidents. I really couldn't believe 
how tough it was concentrating on driving though. I know it's not that easy 
sober, but concentrating on one thing when the music's on, my mom's telling 
me to get out of the shoulder, and I'm trying not to run off the road is not 
easy. So, in the end we passed a couple cops here and a couple of undercover 
cops there, but nothing really outstanding happened besides what I described.
So, just thought I'd try to let you all know what it's like and why not to 
when your in that condition.