By the time I recieved my first zip, I had been under the 
dank, drank, and shrooms for a good glorious two years. 
I had never recieved so much green stuff at one time. All that
sticky, filthy, glowing bud. My partner stared intensely at 
the brick, mouth gaped open looking like a zombie, them eyes 
stretched open, red veins and stuff exposed. It seemed like he 
was going to drool. I fingered through it, getting my hands 
covered with the sparkling crystals. BEAUTIFUL. Honestly, 
there is no feeling in the world that compares to a fat ounce 
of skunk bud resting in your hands. It didn't take long before 
we journeyed to the nearest park. Whipped out our 2 footer...
took a good chunk and packed it. We closed the curtains to our 
72' Chevy Deluxe van. My palms were sweatin like a madman. I 
was anxious to get the smoke up into my lungs. This 2 footer 
is like no other. Dual chamber with them tubes coming out of 
every which way. When you rip the carb, INTENSE amounts of 
smoke bum-rush your awaiting lungs. This brick's kind was 
smooth & potent-for me it was one toke bud. After we tandemed 
the bong for a good half-hour, the vision in the van 
dissipated as well as the air supply. We had Neil Young's 
Harvest CD on the Sony. Old man echoed through my head, almost 
ear-splitting, but at the same time, euphoric. I started 
bobbing my head to the tunes, when my friend collapsed. 
Thinking he was playing, I continued to trip to the tunes. It 
seemed like eternity, the music went on endlessly. For me, 
this was a true , justifying symptom of a true high. I was 
satisfied with the bud and decided that I should indulge. So I 
packed my party bowl and hit it solo. I couldn't even see the 
front bucket seats. Dense smoke, feeling like I was sitting in 
heaven. The tunes stopped. I crawled towards the front of the 
van on all fours to get the tunes going. As I ventured towards 
the dash, I kneed my friend up in the head. He was out. "Fuck 
him" I thought. I slipped in the first CD I grabbed my hands 
on. I stumbled back to my friend to check on him. I sat him 
upright and loaded another bowl. The high at this point, hit 
the prime. Movements were very slow and I needed to put a 
great deal of effort just to move. I heard birds tweeting and 
heard things getting whipped. It sounded and felt like I was 
in a rainforest or a crazy  hectic jungle. Birds, I wanted to 
find them. My thoughts were so unorganized, I started banging 
my head on the roof. I was going hysterical. God damn birds, 
where they coming from. I lit the bowl, the bud flared, I 
fingered the bud to dense it. I left my finger in the burning 
bowl, for who knows how long? All I know that I had a black 
and blue finger the next morning. I couldn't breath! Air...Air
I blew all the second hand smoke into my friends face. Hoping 
he would get high while passed out. I slapped him repeatedely 
in the face. Birds and thunder... the hell? From all 
directions... Where? DAMNIT!!! I socked my fried in the gut... 
Food, liquid...Things went nuts from there... The next thing I 
know, it's 5:00 on my watch. No way that was possible.. so I 
took a peep out the glass. MORNING????? My friend and I had a 
fattie influence trip all day and night until sunrise. FATTIE 
BUD. That bud was soon shared with the LOM crew the same day. 
