==============================================================================
Date: 09-25-90 (10:08)           Number: 864         The Rasta Think Tank
  To: ALL                        Refer#: NONE
From: SKOSCH PENROSE               Read: NO
Subj: Hemp for Victory             Conf: (28) Drugs
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Letter from "HEMP (Help Eliminate Marijuana Prohibition)

H.E.M.P.  5632 Van Nuys #210, Van Nuys, CA 91401  (818) 377-5886


Dear Friend,

For the last fifteen years, the United States Department of
Agriculture's 1942 film, "Hemp For Victory", was given to every facet
of the,media (newspapers, magazines, TV, etc.) by the California
Marijuana Initiative, the Oregon Marijuana Initiative, NORML, etc., as
part of our proof of hemp's history and the incredible potential for
mass-producing hemp by harvesting it mechanically  (see "Popular
Mechanics" Feb. 1938 article, "New Billion DOllar Crop", enclosed).

And for the last fifteen years the USDA, its library, and the Library
of Congress have told or written the media and all other interested
parties (e.g., see enclosed letter to Jim Evans) that no such movie
was *ever* made by the USDA or any branch of the US government.

In May of 1989, Maria Farrow, Carl Packard, and myself, Jack Herer,
were in Washington D.C., going through the Library of Congress' motion
picture and filmstrips records, and the records at the USDA library at
Bettsville, Maryland.  After being told by their librarians that it
simply couldn't have disappeared form the card catalogs, files and
electronic searches of all our major libraries if the US government
had indeed made it, we looked until we were beat, and we quit.

Then we decided to try once more at the Library of Congress.  We asked
for the film catalogs of thirty to fourty years ago, and after all
those government searches denying its existence, we found it!  (See
enclosed certification from the Library of Congress)  We donated two
VHS copies of "HFV" into the Library of Congress, and they were
accpeted on May 19, 1989.

Jack Herer.


(Copies of supporting documents may be found on page 102 of:  "The
Emperor Wears No Cloths:  The Authoritative Historical Record of the
Cannabis Plant, Hemp Prohibition, and How Marijuana Can Still Save the
World."  by Jack Herer.  1990 Edition, HEMP/Queen of Clubs Publishing



Skosch Penrose

---
 þ EZ 1.33 #197 þ Only the working class can change society.


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
