At one time I lived in Vadez Alaska and and the weed is the best(If 
ya ever herd of Matanuska thunderfuck ya know  what I tallking 
about) so I bougt a phat  1/2 so I could have some weed t smoke wit 
the pros that were in town for the king of the hill snowborad comp 
well after a good stoned day snowbording some of the pros matched me 
bouls and invited me to a hotel party I thought why not so I showed 
up at about 10:00pm with my girl I was a pretty cool party ( the 
theam of the party was Pimps and HOs party) Me and about six other 
guys weer taking hit off the phatest blunt that I ever rolled and 
stuck it in a three chambered bong we all got rip I sat in the same 
spot for about a hour checking out all the chick dressed up like old 
school hos then one of the pro  flipped the fuck out  just jumed out 
of bed and screemmed out abunch of cazy shit rip the lamp out of the 
wall and jmed ont it his home boy gabed a case from under the bed 
and pulled out a phukkrn TEC 9 assalut gun and poped out some round 
( talk about putting on a bad high ) any how jump the fuck out of 
the chir that thoght  i would never get out of and grabed my girl 
ran for the doortured the knob nand the stupid thing brook off in my 
hand so now whaT LOOK BACK AT THE PARTY AND ALL THEMDUDES MUST BEEN 
ON SOMETHIG BECAUSE THEY WERE GOING NUTS and I know I had to get out 
of thir so grabed a snowborad and throgh the dam window and jumped 
ot ran around front and oprned the door from the out side and let my 
girl out we jump inn the my car and lefft on the way home i got 
pulled bover and thown in jail for possion of some weed but the good 
thing about that night was i was still stoned the hole night in jail   


    JNUT GREEN ROOM FUNK BOOOOOOY!!!!!
