  It was a friday and there was a dance at school, me and two other friends
had a couple of real fat joints of Kona Gold, chronic!  So we called up
these two pretty hot chicks, told them that we had buds and that we were
comming over.  We were at a boarding school and the chicks lived right
below it, so we decided to just walk off campus.  We made it to their house
and everything was cool, their parents weren't home so we had the whole
house to ourselves.  We chose to smoke in the bedroom in the loft because
the roof was pointed and the smoke would collect nicely.  I pulled out the
object that somewhat resembled a baseball bat, sparked it and passed it
around.  One of the hunies cranked up Bob and we were having an irie
experience.  My friend sparked the second joint, and we got blounted.  We
were just kickin' it in the loft when the phone rang, thinking nothing of
it one of the girls answered it.  It was the person on duty in the dorm,
and they were pissed!  they asked the girl why I was at her house, she said
I wasn't and they told her not to lie or she would be in deep shit.  With a
blank look on her face she handed the phone to me, "Barry, why are you at
Mary's house?"  I told him that I went to her house to wait for her to get
ready for the dance.  Erbing is kind of a big deal in my school because if
you get caught, you're out, and it costs 20,000 dollars a year.  Anyway,
the teacher told me to get my ass up to the school and go "explain my
situation" to the principal because I didn't sign out.  I fucking freaked
out, I figured that they saw me walking the driveway or something.  One of
the chicks let me borow a clean shirt, I put about a gallon of clear eyes
in and chewed on some gum. One of the girls drove me up and dropped me off
at the bottom of the campus.  I slowly made my way up thinking of what the
hell I was going to say to the principal.  When I walked in his door my
heart was beating about 700 beats per second, he asked me why I didn't sign
out, and I said the only thing that came out of my blurred mind, "I
forgot."  He gave me this scary look and asked me if I was going to the
dance, I said yes and he said have fun.  I couldn't believe he didn't know
I was stoned, so I got the fuck out of there, went and smoked a little
roach, and had a IRIE time at the dance.