A Marijiuana Planting Guide
	Written by Sir Mad

	Presented by Elric of Imrryr
	and Lunatic Labs UnLimited
			Fnord!

One, if you
grow a female plant, but do not allow
it to be pollinated, towards the end of
the season it will produce a few male
flowers. These few flowers will produce
countless thousands of pollen grains,
and produce quite a few seeds. These
seeds will be dominantly female.
Another technique is to cross a
hermaphrodite (Both male and female)
with a female (pistalate) . This will
produce nearly all pistilate seeds on
the female. The second thing, buds will
not produce much THC if enough light
does not reach them. If not enough
light reaches them, they probably will
not even produce buds at all. The white
buds are probably a result of all the
scum that resides in the New York
sewers.
 
For all you people out there who want
to grow some buds this season, here is
a rough graph of planting information.
 
Around the bay area, southern CA along
the coast, south-eastern US along the
coast, and the border of CA and Arizona
plant your seeds from Jan. 30 to Feb.
8. For all the areas around these
mentioned above, plant your seeds from
Feb. 8 to 28. In oregon along the
coast, and much of the area from
Georgia to Texas, plant your seeds from
Feb. 28 to March 10. North of this area
and the mid-Eastern Us coastline, plant
seeds from March 20 to Apr. 20. Across
thh center of the US, plant seeds from
April 10 to May 10. For the northern
US, plant seeds from may 10 to 30.
Plant a whole flat of seeds, so the
most healthy and vigourous plants can
be selected for maturation.

For planting, first select some seeds
that are of very good quality. To do
this, just save some seed from some
killer buds that you have sampled.
Plant a buch of seeds in a flat. A flat
is a big flat box filled with dirt. It
has drainage holes in the bottom. The
planting of weed requires some general
knowledge of gardening. The procedure
is the following:
 
1. Prepare a flat. Make sure it has
proper drainage, or the seeds will rot.
 
2. Buy a bag of potting soil. Make sure
it is called potting soil, not 'mulch
bark',etc. You do not want to have
fertilized soil, because you want the
seedling's roots to become well
developed before transplanting.
 
3. Soak soil with water for a few days
to ensure that it will be fully
saturated.
 
4. Poke holes one inch apart with your
finger, a stick, etc. Insert a seed
into each hole, and cover well.
 
5. Put the flat into direct sunlight,
and keep moist.
 
6. in about a week, the seeds will
germinate, as they grow, pinch off all
the weak or small seedlings.
 
7. After about a month, the remaining
plants will be ready for
transplantation.
 
coming soon: Transplanting, outdoor
soil preparation, and indoor
cultivation.
Later on,
                   SiR^MaD
 


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
