Got twisted on new years with the good stuff, straight bud!!!

Well, to start off, I was home on Christman break from college and I had 
just gotten off of work. ME and this chick I had met at my job had 
planed on going out latter. So my night was already planed out. Check 
it, just so I could lighten the mood with her some, I decided to get 
some drink. I had my uncle get me a couple of 40 ounces of St. Ides 
(that is the good shit!!!!!:) and a 5th of gin and grapefruit. So when 
we get home I go down stairs and just chill. While I am down there, I 
see that my uncle had half a blunt left in his ashtray. I was like "yeah 
it's on now!" So I smoked that, "it was some good shit," and I start 
buzzing a bit. When i had smoked it all, I was pretty dawn fucked up by 
then, I decided to crack open a forty ounce and guzzle that bitch. Damn 
that shit hit me like a ton of bricks. While I am high as fuck, I call 
up my boy meech, just to see what he was up to. He said he would come by 
and swoop me up. Its on!!!!! But at this time I had totally forgot that 
that bitch was supposed to come pick me up. I was gonna call her, but i 
was so fucking to down by then ( I had drunk another 40 ounce) that I
didn't even give a fuck.So I smoked another joint and I was fucking 
twisted.  But the fucked up thing was , "They both came by at the same 
time!!!!! I was so fucked that I didn't even know that I was giving up 
pussy to go and kick it and get even more fucked up with my boy. so I 
was like. Fuck it, lets go!!!!!! We rode to his cousin's house in the 
projects and just chilled.  He had gave me another 5th of gin and 
grapefruit to kill, and baby I murdered that son of a bitch. Two other 
dudes had came by with a blunt and a couple of fat ass joints. The room 
was getting smokey ass fuck and was even more fucked up.  I was soo 
mutha-fuckin drunik and high as fuck, that I had to go out side, because 
I thought I was gonna hurl. "And I did!!!!!. I sat down in the snow and 
kept throwing up in one spot. By the time I got home, the weed smell was 
so damn strong on my clothes, it was choking. the next morning when I 
had woke up, I asked my uncle what time I had come in last night.(With 
me same clothes on from the night before!!!!!) He said about 4:00 or 
5:00 in the fucking morning. I felt like shit, but I really got fucked 
up that night.

Peace from the ghost face killa, still trying to see through all the 
holy smoke.