Newsgroups: rec.drugs.cannabis 

     I've seen posts like ".... while stoned" (ie. driving, playing
pool, working, licking a dirty dog --> eh... WHAT?!)    Whatta bout 
SeX?!  I'm sure some people have already done this. (Post a follow up 
and brag, will ya?)   

     But for those of you who are still virgins in the ways of Mary 
Jane's orgasm, all's I gotta say is:  Do it!  Burn up a thick duber with 
your sex partner (jeez... could I be more technical?)  and just pump (or 
thrust or pound or ram) the whole f!ckin' night away :)   Let me tell ya 
something... the first time I did this... I had no clue to what to 
expect.  Here I was with a damn, fuckin' sweetest fine girl I'll ever 
see for a while.  To make it different, we decided to smoke a joint to 
start it off.  Boy... did she ever treat me *right*!  I was juss havin' 
a blast with this amazing girl.  For a while, the stuff I smoked didn't 
take effect yet.  but then   -BAM!!-   That shit hit me!  In just that 
quick moment, my mind just shifted into another plane of consciousness.  
Dudes, my SeX life changed just like that.  I never knew that anything 
can alter one's life, but I found mine!  the very stuff I live for... 
WEEED!!  anyways... Here we are, bodies in constant rhythm as we were 
simultaneously stoned.  Waves of pure pleasure ran through our bodies; 
it felt grreat!  Just the feeling of it drowned out all of our thoughts, 
all reality.  It was perfect... we timed it out just right --> 
Simutaneous fucking orgasm!!  But wait.  That wasn't it!  For some 
reason, that wasn't all...  

       <snip out 2 hours of pure, hot SeX>

You know how girls have multiples?  Well, for being a guy, I had my 
first multi-multiple!!   I was able to last for 2 hours after my first 
'coming' and counted up to four total orgasms!!  Damn, I satisfied her 
like no other.  We had to stop because for some reason my balls were a 
bit sore because of all that jizzin'.  Man... that was THE best!  I will 
never forget that girl.  by the way, it was only a 1-niter with her :(  
but when I think of her, my d!ck just stiffens soo hard that it could 
break off!!  :)  

btw, i might do--> SeX while trippin'   *Hell Yeah!!*

later stoners

'toady the blue toad'    
 \  /
  @@
 ({})
 \--/ 